.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 2020 2021 2022
.\"     John McCue <jmccue@jmcunx.com>
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.TH jls 1 "2021/03/18" "JMC" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jls - program jls shows file info
.SH SYNOPSIS
jls [OPTIONS] [FILE...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This Utility takes a list of file names from
a Text File (or stdin or command line) and prints File
Information.
.PP
This can be used to show file stat info in a standard
format between various UN*X Systems.
The various stat utilities show date information
in different formats and on different lines.
.PP
If no files (FILE) are specified on the command line or
if FILE has name '-', stdin (Standard Input) is used.
.PP
When stdin is used, it is assumed each record contains
a name of the file you want information about.
.TP
-a
Optional, Show Last Access Date/Time
.TP
-c
Optional, Show Last Status Change Date/Time
.TP
-e file
Optional, if used, write error messages to file 'file'.
If not specified, errors written to stderr.
.TP
-f
Optional, Force file create.
Create file even if the target file exists.
.TP
-h
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
-i file
Optional, Get files to list from file 'file'.
Default, get file names from the command line.
.TP
-m
Optional, Show Modification Date/Time.
If arguments -a, -c, -s are not specified,
the list by default will show only Modification Date/Time.
.TP
-o file
Optional, if used, write output to file 'file'.
If not specified, output written to stdout.
.TP
-s
Optional, Show File Size in Bytes.
.TP
-V
Output version information and exit.
.TP
-v
Optional, Verbose Level.
Print information about the run,
default do not show run messages.
Can be specified multiple times,
each specification increases verbose level:
.nf
    Level  Meaning
    -----  ----------------------------------------
    = 0    Do not show any messages, default
    >= 1   Show headings on output
    >= 2   Show files that could not be processed
           on stderr
    >= 3   Show summary stats on stderr.  Ignored
           unless processing a file that contains
           a list of file names
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
In most cases you should use ls(1) instead, or stat(1)/istat(1)
if those exists on your system.
.PP
This utility probably best used in scripts and
those scripts need to analyze file
stats without including any OS specific formatting.
.SH SEE-ALSO
file(1),
istat(1),
jistat(local),
ls(1),
readlink(1),
stat(1),
stat(2)
.SH ERROR-CODES
.nf
0 success
1 processing error or help/rev displayed
.fi
